[docs] clarify and add warning for load function (#1807)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/03-loading.md

A component that defines a page or a layout can export a `load` function that runs before the component is created. This function runs both during server-side rendering and in the client, and allows you to get data for a page without (for example) showing a loading spinner and fetching data in `onMount`.

> > Since `load` can run on the server as well as the client browser, any state changes to a variable that happens on the server will be saved and persisted, and all clients hitting the server-rendered page will be exposed to the already mutated state instead of a clean one.

Reviewer: I think it's a bit confusing to start this with "Since `load` can run on the server as well as the client browser" because this really only involves the server and so bringing the client into it confused me. "saved and persisted" also makes me think it will persist the value to the client, which it doesn't

Author: Initially thought so too, but was trying to preserve the first sentence from

https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/blob/64f749db8ca1e9bb08c38f271d9cd44b31920b83/documentation/docs/03-loading.md#L71

Do you think it would be clearer if we change it back to this?

```suggestion
> It is important to note that `load` can run on the server as well as the client browser, any state changes to a variable that happens on the server will be saved and persisted, and all clients hitting the server-rendered page will be exposed to the already mutated state instead of a clean one.
```

For "saved and persisted" part, I think it was clear with the "that happens on the server" placed right before it. Although, the "server and client" thing was already mentioned in the previous paragraph as well, perhaps we could just omit the sentence before the first comma altogether?

Reviewer: Why not just leave that sentence where it was?

Author: Feels weird to mention it multiple times throughout the same section, right now twice and would be 3 times if this were added. I do think we can still improve the whole section overall.

Reviewer: We wouldn't be mentioning it here if it were moved back though, would we?

Author: That's true, I've put them back and placed this at the bottom so it doesn't feel out of place. Users will read the note about the server/client first and we can avoid duplicate mentions.

>

> > It is recommended to make any state changes in the `<script>` block or outside of `load`. To share states exclusive to individual clients, use [`request.locals`](#hooks-handle) or [session](#loading-input-session).

Reviewer: > It is recommended to make any state changes in the `<script>` block or outside of `load`.

I don't know that I'd go so far as to make this a recommendation

Author: I was thinking on how to _not_ recommend making state changes in `load` function, but I think that it's better to use a positive connotation and recommend something instead of discouraging without giving alternatives. Any thoughts how we should go about it?

Reviewer: I don't think there's any issue with making state changes in `load` though. It seems much too broad. You should just be aware if you mutate a singleton that it will persist across calls

Author: Isn't the issue is exactly that, can you explain why it's too broad? I'm not aware of any other stuff on the pages that can also run on the server other than `load`.

> You should just be aware if you mutate a singleton that it will persist across calls

I think the users are aware of this, but the underlying problem is that they expect it to be persisted across calls in the client's side and not from the server directly, and really the difference is just mutating in `load` and passing it to `<script>` first before mutating, to make sure that singleton is always mutated in the client's browser.

Reviewer: A state change is just mutating some variable. It seems too broad to say you can't do that

I was under the impression that the problem discussed in the issue (https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/issues/1542) was only talking about the server-side behavior. They were surprised that the counter was incrementing on the server between different requests and users

Author: It's not really saying they can't, but I guess it does sounds like there's implicit restrictions and may cause more confusion. Removed in the latest change.

};
```

> Our example blog page might contain a `load` function like the following. Note the `context="module"` — this is necessary because `load` runs before the component is rendered:

Reviewer: I agree with moving this. I actually made this change in a few places. If you rebase against `master` it was updated a couple weeks ago in https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/commit/9701eb21b7698226ad287c7ce0f1893ffa6fb972#diff-820e98511cb87c8891f398a00ff2f70793de22e53396d0a3ac6bc2cd6cc3e56e

If `load` returns nothing, SvelteKit will [fall through](#routing-advanced-fallthrough-routes) to other routes until something responds, or will respond with a generic 404.

> > `load` only applies to [pages](#routing-pages) and [layouts](#layouts), and it may run on either the server or in the client browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `load` only applies to [page](#routing-pages) and [layout](#layouts) components, not the components that they import, and by default runs on both the server and the client browser.
```

Author: > and by default runs on both the server and the client browser

Not quite sure about this bit, it can only run on either server or client but not really both at once. I think the previous one already describes it pretty nicely.

Reviewer: It doesn't run on both at the same exact instant, but it does run on both for a single request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `load` only applies to [page](#routing-pages) and [layout](#layouts) components, and can run both on the server (unless [ssr](#ssr-and-javascript-ssr) is disabled) and in the browser.
```

Code called inside `load` blocks:

> - should use the SvelteKit-provided [`fetch`](#loading-input-fetch) method for getting data in order to avoid duplicate network requests

Reviewer: do we really want to take this out of the red box? this seems like the kind of thing we want to alert users to

Author: Leaving it inside will make it one huge red box, and when everything is an alert, nothing is. Taking this list out of it will make it so that it's placed between two red box and reads better for list items.

Reviewer: The box currently (https://kit.svelte.dev/docs#loading) is just on the edge of what I'd say is the biggest we want to go. I like that you combined the first couple sentences, which will make it smaller. I am worried that adding the new stuff would push it over the edge. But I would keep what's currently there instead of removing it and adding the new stuff

Reviewer 2: i realise this wording was already present, but the duplicate network requests thing is barely here nor there — the real reason to use the passed-in `fetch` is that nothing will work otherwise

```suggestion
- should use the SvelteKit-provided [`fetch`](#loading-input-fetch) wrapper rather than using the native `fetch`, which doesn't have access to cookies on the server and cannot make requests against the app's own endpoints
```

- should generally run on the same domain as any upstream API servers requiring credentials
- should not reference `window`, `document`, or any browser-specific objects
- should not reference any API keys or secrets directly, which will be exposed to the client, but instead call an endpoint using any required secrets

> > Any state changes to a variable that happens on the server will be saved and persisted on that server as well, and all clients hitting the server-rendered page will be exposed to the already mutated state from the server. To share states exclusive to individual clients, use [`request.locals`](#hooks-handle) or [session](#loading-input-session).

Reviewer: "state changes to a variable" should probably be "state changes to a global variable" or something more specific

the reason to use `request.locals` is to share state across hooks, request, and page on the server. And `session` allows you to share between the server and client. I think that's a bit of info that could be useful in determining which is appropriate

Author: I agree with the first one. The additional bit of info should probably be placed in `locals` and `session` sections respectively instead, since we've already linked them here.

Reviewer: One thing that I think could be a bit confusing about the current wording in this PR is that it talks about sharing state with clients and mentions `request.locals`, but `request.locals` only stays on the server and client typically refers to the web browser

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Mutating any shared state on the server will affect all clients, not just the current one.
```

We probably shouldn't talk about `request.locals` here since `load` doesn't see them, it adds confusion

If `load` returns nothing, SvelteKit will [fall through](#routing-advanced-fallthrough-routes) to other routes until something responds, or will respond with a generic 404.

> `load` only applies to [pages](#routing-pages) and [layouts](#layouts), and it may run on either the server or in the client browser.

Code called inside `load` blocks:

- should use the SvelteKit-provided [`fetch`](#loading-input-fetch) method for getting data in order to avoid duplicate network requests

> - should generally run on the same domain as any upstream API servers requiring credentials

Reviewer 2: honestly i'm not totally sure what this is doing here. is this `load`-specific, or just a thing you have to think about when building web apps generally?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- should not reference `window`, `document`, or any browser-specific objects

> - should not reference any API keys or secrets directly, which will be exposed to the client, but instead call an endpoint using any required secrets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- should not directly reference any API keys or secrets, which will be exposed to the client, but instead call an endpoint that uses any required secrets
```
